Removing outdated flow.run() docs (#148)
glotzerlab/signac-docs: docs/source/flow-project.rst

The FlowProject
===============

> This chapter describes how to setup a complete workflow via the implementation of a :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject`. It includes two **fundamental concepts** for the implementation of workflows with the **signac-flow** package: :ref:`operations <operations>` and :ref:`conditions <conditions>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter describes how to setup a complete workflow via the implementation of a :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject`.
It includes two **fundamental concepts** for the implementation of workflows with the **signac-flow** package: :ref:`operations <operations>` and :ref:`conditions <conditions>`.
```

Reviewer 2: I think as long as operations and conditions appear as sub-entries in the sidebar toc, we don't need to announce them in the organizational statement (the second sentence).

This sentence makes it sound like there is a central list of "fundamental concepts", which is perhaps another motivation for having a glossary.

===============

This chapter describes how to setup a complete workflow via the implementation of a :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject`.
It includes two **fundamental concepts** for the implementation of workflows with the **signac-flow** package: :ref:`operations <operations>` and :ref:`conditions <conditions>`.

.. _project-setup:

Setup and Interface
===================

To implement an automated workflow using **signac-flow**, we create a subclass of :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject`, here named ``MyProject``:

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject

    class MyProject(FlowProject):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        MyProject().main()

.. tip::

>     The ``$ flow init`` function will generate a minimal ``project.py`` file like the one above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The ``$ flow init`` command will generate a minimal ``project.py`` file like the one above.
```

Setup and Interface
===================

> To implement an automated workflow using **signac flow**, we create a subclass of :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject`, here named :py:class:`~MyProject`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement an automated workflow using **signac-flow**, we create a subclass of :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject`, here named ``MyProject``:
```

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject

    class MyProject(FlowProject):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        MyProject().main()

.. tip::

>     The ``$ flow init`` function will generate a boiler-plate ``project.py`` like the one above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The ``$ flow init`` function will generate a minimal ``project.py`` file like the one above.
```

.. note::

    You can have **multiple** implementations of :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject` that all operate on the same **signac** project!
    You can have **multiple** implementations of :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject` that all operate on the same **signac** data space!
    This may be useful, for example, if you want to implement two very distinct workflows that operate on the same data space.
    Simply put those in different modules, *e.g.*, ``project_a.py`` and ``project_b.py``.

> .. _workflow-definition:

Reviewer 2: Don't have time to check rn if this was used before/if it needs to be added to a redirect list or anything for any people's saved URLs.

Reviewer 2: Currently the url that links to the Defining a workflow section. 

https://docs.signac.io/en/latest/flow-project.html#defining-a-workflow

Perhaps the right course of action is to leave both targets for this section?

.. note::

    You can have **multiple** implementations of :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject` that all operate on the same **signac** data space!
    This may be useful, for example, if you want to implement two very distinct workflows that operate on the same data space.
    Simply put those in different modules, *e.g.*, ``project_a.py`` and ``project_b.py``.

.. _operations:

Operations
==========

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra newline.
```suggestion
```

However, we only want to execute ``hello`` if ``hello.txt`` does not yet exist in the job's workspace.
To do this, we need to create a condition function named ``greeted`` that tells us if ``hello.txt`` already exists in the job workspace:

.. code-block:: python

    def greeted(job):
        return job.isfile('hello.txt')

To complete this component of the workflow, we use the :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.post` decorator function to specify that the ``hello`` operation function should only be executed if the ``greeted`` condition is *not* met.

The entirety of the code is as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject

    class MyProject(FlowProject):
        pass

    def greeted(job):
        return job.isfile('hello.txt')

    @MyProject.operation
    @MyProject.post(greeted)
    def hello(job):
        with job:
            with open('hello.txt', 'w') as file:
                file.write('world!\n')

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        MyProject().main()

> We can define both :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.pre` and :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.post` conditions, which allow us to define arbitrary workflows as an acyclic graph.

Reviewer: We should link to a definition if we use "directed acyclic graph" as a math/CS term.
```suggestion
We can define both :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.pre` and :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.post` conditions, which allow us to define arbitrary workflows as a `directed acyclic graph <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph>`__.
```

In this context, an *operation* is defined as a function whose only positional argument is an instance of :py:class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job` (in the special case of :ref:`aggregate operations <aggregation>`, variable positional arguments ``*jobs`` are permitted).

We will demonstrate this concept with a simple example.
Let's initialize a project with a few jobs, by executing the following ``init.py`` script within a ``~/my_project`` directory:

.. code-block:: python

    # init.py

    import signac

    project = signac.init_project('MyProject')
    for i in range(10):
        project.open_job({'a': i}).init()

A very simple *operation*, which creates a file called ``hello.txt`` within a job's workspace directory, could be implemented like this:

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py

    from flow import FlowProject

    class MyProject(FlowProject):
        pass

    @MyProject.operation
    def hello(job):
        print('hello', job)
        with job:
            with open('hello.txt', 'w') as file:
                file.write('world!\n')

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        MyProject().main()

.. _conditions:

Conditions
==========

> Here the :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.operation` decorator function specifies that the ``hello`` operation function is part of our workflow. If we run ``python project.py run``, **signac-flow** will execute ``hello`` for all jobs in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.operation` decorator function specifies that the ``hello`` operation function is part of our workflow.
If we run ``python project.py run``, **signac-flow** will execute ``hello`` for all jobs in the project.
```

Defining a workflow
===================

This chapter introduces the two **fundamental concepts** for the implementation of workflows with the **signac-flow** package: :ref:`operations` and :ref:`conditions`.

.. _operations:

It is highly recommended to divide individual modifications of your project's data space into distinct functions.

> In this context, an *operation* is defined as a unary function where its only argument is aninstance of :py:class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this context, an *operation* is defined as a function whose only positional argument is an instance of :py:class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job` (in the special case of :ref:`aggregate operations <aggregation>`, variable positional arguments ``*jobs`` are permitted).
```

Author: helpful clarification, thanks!

We will demonstrate this concept with a simple example.
Let's initialize a project with a few jobs, by executing the following ``init.py`` script within a ``~/my_project`` directory:

.. code-block:: python

    # init.py
    import signac

    project = signac.init_project('MyProject')
    for i in range(10):
        project.open_job({'a': i}).init()

A very simple *operation*, which creates a file called ``hello.txt`` within a job's workspace directory, could be implemented like this:

.. code-block:: python
    # project.py

    from flow import FlowProject

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    @Project.operation
    def hello(job):
        print('hello', job)
        with job:
            with open('hello.txt', 'w') as file:
                file.write('world!\n')

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        Project().main()

.. _conditions:

> Here the :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.operation` decorator function specifies that the ``hello()`` operation function is part of our workflow. If we run ``python project.py run``, signac-flow will execute all ``hello()`` for all jobs in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.operation` decorator function specifies that the ``hello`` operation function is part of our workflow. If we run ``python project.py run``, **signac-flow** will execute ``hello`` for all jobs in the project.
```

> However, we only want to perform ``hello()`` if ``hello.txt`` does not yet exist in the ``job``'s workspace. To do this, need to create a condition function named ``greeted()`` that tells us if ``hello.txt`` already exits in the job workspace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we only want to execute ``hello`` if ``hello.txt`` does not yet exist in the job's workspace.
To do this, we need to create a condition function named ``greeted`` that tells us if ``hello.txt`` already exists in the job workspace:
```

.. code-block:: python
    # project.py

    ...

    def greeted(job):
        return job.isfile('hello.txt')

> To complete this component of the workflow, we use the :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.post` decorator function to specify that the ``hello()`` operation function should only be executed if the ``greeted()`` condition is not met.

Reviewer: Let's remove parentheses that indicate calling a function unless including the arguments like `greeted(job)`.
```suggestion
To complete this component of the workflow, we use the :py:meth:`~flow.FlowProject.post` decorator function to specify that the ``hello`` operation function should only be executed if the ``greeted`` condition is not met.
```

    hello 2b985fa90138327bef586f9ad87fc310
    # ...

> If we implemented and integrated the operation and condition functions correctly, calling the ``run`` command twice should produce no output the second time, since the ``greeted`` condition is met for all jobs and the ``hello`` operation should therefore not be executed.

Reviewer: Calling `run` again might print progress output or something like that, but we can promise that it will "take no action" or "execute no operations."
```suggestion
If we implemented and integrated the operation and condition functions correctly, calling the ``run`` command twice should execute no operations the second time, since the ``greeted`` condition is met for all jobs and the ``hello`` operation should therefore not be executed.
```

The :py:class:`~flow.FlowProject` class allows us to generate a **status** view of our project.
The status view provides information about which conditions are met and what operations are pending execution.

> A condition function which will be shown in the **status** view is called a *label-function*.

Reviewer: Invert sentence order so that it's clear that we're defining a new term.
```suggestion
A *label-function* is a condition function which will be shown in the **status** view.
```

    ~/my_project $ python project.py run

> Status is determined sequentially by default, because typically the overhead costs of using threads/processes are large. However, this can be configured by setting a value for the ``flow.status_parallelization`` configuration key.

Reviewer: Break sentences across lines.
```suggestion
Status is determined sequentially by default, because typically the overhead costs of using threads/processes are large.
However, this can be configured by setting a value for the ``flow.status_parallelization`` configuration key.
```

> The status determination operates in series by default, because typically the overhead costs of using threads/processes are large. However this can be configured by setting a value for the ``flow.status_parallelization`` configuration key.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this change is correct. To the best of my knowledge, "serial execution" is a term, but "series execution" is not a term.

Reviewer 2: Bradley and I discussed offline. We agreed that series is the noun form of serial but that the adjective form seems to be the norm in the language of algorithms. Referencing Wikipedia and the OED (serial and sequential 2b), we agreed to switch to "Status is determined sequentially..."

Wikipedia:
>Concurrency and parallelism are in general distinct concepts, but they often overlap – many distributed algorithms are both concurrent and parallel – and thus "sequential" is used to contrast with both, without distinguishing which one. If these need to be distinguished, the opposing pairs sequential/concurrent and serial/parallel may be used.

OED:
> seqential def 2b: Of, pertaining to, or designating various aspects of a computer system and its control programming that operate or are utilized serially; "

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Status is determined sequentially by default, because typically the overhead costs of using threads/processes are large. However, this can be configured by setting a value for the ``flow.status_parallelization`` configuration key.
```

> The status determination operates in series by default, because typically the overhead costs of using threads/processes are large. However this can be configured by setting a value for the ``flow.status_parallelization`` configuration key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Status is determined sequentially because typically the overhead costs of using threads/processes are large. However, this can be configured by setting a value for the ``flow.status_parallelization`` configuration key.
```
